Moodsic is built on Flask’s lightweight, simple framework. Behind the scenes, the application combines HTML templates, decorated by CSS, with a Python-dominated back-end that puts together Pandas, NumPy, and API requests to parse user listening habit data received from Spotify. 

On the front-end, the application translates HTML render-templates that link to a CSS stylesheet. One of the key attributes of our project aims to explore the freedom and versatility of Bootstrap’s many open source UI easter eggs. More than simple navigation bars and buttons, our project attempts to translate the grid-layout framework of Bootstrap into a organized, structured, and modern user experience.

On the back-end however, application development required much more care and thought. Moodsic’s fundamental functionalities are heavily based on Spotfy’s dev-tool, Spotipy, and its Python API. Our program establishes connectivity, and pulls for user-specific listening data. No password or login information is stored on Moodsic’s local server beyond session data ensuring login of a certain user is conditionally memorized. Following an API call to Spotipy, Moodsic translates an analysis of the returned JSON data via Pandas and Python to return purposeful takeaways. Our app primarily parses over listening habit ‘valence’, and then goes onto display percent change in valence over three time periods (1 month, 6 month, and entire listening history) as a quirky, phrase depicting relative mood changes in users based off of these habits. Additionally, Moodsic offers an exciting secondary function: returning a user’s saddest songs by analyzing the valence of songs in a user’s listening habits, separately pulling for valence values, finding the lowest values, and returning these top most sad songs. 
